---
layout: releasenotes
title: Release Notes for Version 1.7.3
date: 2014-05-30 12:00:00
release_notes: true
permalink: /releasenotes/1.7.3/
---

1. [Introduction](#intro)
1. [Highlights](#highlights)
1. [Known Issues](#issues)
1. [Reminder](#reminder)
1. [Credits](#credits)
1. [Test Results](#test)

## <a id="intro"></a>Introduction

You can read the official announcement at [Apache jclouds 1.7.3 released](http://jclouds.markmail.org/message/6ormro7calbt5tjn). You can read the details of the specific JIRA issues addressed in this release at the [JIRA Release Notes](https://issues.apache.org/jira/issues/?jql=project%20%3D%20JCLOUDS%20AND%20fixVersion%20%3D%201.7.3).

To get jclouds, please see the [jclouds installation guide](/start/install/).

## <a id="highlights"></a>Highlights

* ElasticStack is back. The elasticstack API has been fixed and the elastichosts-* Providers are in good working condition again.
* The swift API and cloudfiles-us & cloudfiles-uk Providers have been deprecated as of jclouds 1.7.2.
* They will be replaced with the openstack-swift API and rackspace-cloudfiles-us & rackspace-cloudfiles-uk & hpcloud-objectstorage Providers in jclouds 2.0.
* The new APIs and providers have been updated to the current jclouds interface style and are fully region aware. These APIs are new to jclouds and hence are in Beta. That means we need people to use it and give us [feedback](/community/). Based on that feedback, minor changes to the interfaces may happen. This code will replace org.jclouds.openstack.swift.SwiftClient in jclouds 2.0 and it is recommended you adopt it sooner than later.
* You can get the new Swift and Cloud Files dependencies with:

{% highlight xml %}
<dependencies>
  <dependency>
    <groupId>org.apache.jclouds.labs</groupId>
    <artifactId>openstack-swift</artifactId>
    <version>1.7.3</version>
  </dependency>
  <dependency>
    <groupId>org.apache.jclouds.labs</groupId>
    <artifactId>rackspace-cloudfiles-us</artifactId>
    <version>1.7.3</version>
  </dependency>
  <dependency>
    <groupId>org.apache.jclouds.labs</groupId>
    <artifactId>rackspace-cloudfiles-uk</artifactId>
    <version>1.7.3</version>
  </dependency>
</dependencies>
{% endhighlight %}

* Here is the [Javadoc](/reference/javadoc/1.7.x/) for the new Swift and Cloud Files classes.

## <a id="issues"></a>Known Issues

* jclouds 1.7.3 is incompatible with [Guava](https://code.google.com/p/guava-libraries/) 16 and 17. Please switch to Guava 15.0 or earlier, or wait for jclouds 1.8.

## <a id="reminder"></a>Reminder

The jclouds Maven group ID for versions since [1.6.1-incubating](../1.6.1) is `org.apache.jclouds` rather than `org.jclouds`, so a pom.xml dependency would now look like:

{% highlight xml %}
<dependencies>
  <dependency>
    <groupId>org.apache.jclouds</groupId>
    <artifactId>jclouds-all</artifactId>
    <version>1.7.3</version>
  </dependency>
</dependencies>
{% endhighlight %}

## <a id="credits"></a>Credits

jclouds would like to thank everyone who contributed time and effort in order to make this release happen:

* Apache jclouds [PMC](http://people.apache.org/committers-by-project.html#jclouds-pmc) and community for verifying the release.
* Check out who has been busy [here](http://www.ohloh.net/p/jclouds/contributors?query=&sort=latest_commit).

## <a id="test"></a>Test Results

Please see the [discussion thread](http://jclouds.markmail.org/message/smznp6474kpojqeb) and the [vote thread](http://jclouds.markmail.org/message/ydekpm36pwaqpvbf) for test results for 1.7.3.

