---
author: <a href="https://twitter.com/IgnasiBarrera">Ignasi Barrera</a>
comments: true
date: 2018-01-11 07:00:00+00:00
layout: post
slug: keystone-v3
title: OpenStack Keystone V3 Support
---

The last months we have been working on adding support for **OpenStack Keystone V3**. It has not been an easy thing, as all of the existing OpenStack apis depend on it, and we try hard to keep our APIs backwards-compatible. We wanted to implement a clean solution that allowed users to upgrade to the new version with the minimum changes required to the existing code.

We are happy to announce that starting from jclouds `2.1.0` we support the version 3 of the OpenStack Keystone API too.
<!--more-->

## Using the OpenStack Keystone V3 API

To use the OpenStack Keystone V3 API you don't need to invlude any additional dependency. The `openstack-keystone` API contains the code for V2 and V3, so all providers and APIs have access to both versions.

### Configuring OpenStack services to use Keystone V3

Using Keystone V3 in OpenStack services is pretty straightforward. Just create the context and make sure to include the following configuration property:

{% highlight java %}
Properties overrides = new Properties();
overrides.put(KeystoneProperties.KEYSTONE_VERSION, "3");
{% endhighlight %}

### Connecting to Keystone V3

In order to use directly the `openstack-keystone` API to connect to Keystone V3, you'll have to use the `openstack-keystone-3` API ID when creating the context. Something like:

{% highlight java %}
KeystoneApi keystone = ContextBuilder.newBuilder("openstack-keystone-3")
   .endpoint("http://openstack-keystone/identity/v3")
   .credentials("domain:admin", "password")
   .overrides(overrides)
   .modules(ImmutableSet.of(new SLF4JLoggingModule()))
   .buildApi(KeystoneApi.class);
{% endhighlight %}

### Configuring authentication

Keystone V3 supports several authentication mechanisms that provide authentication tokens with different permissions. It is important to configure the right authentication method, otherwise some operations offered by the Keystone API might not be available.

The credentials in Keystone 3 must include the `domain` name and the `username`, as shown in the example above.

By default, jclouds uses **password authentication with unscoped authorization**, although this can be changed by configuring the `KeystoneProperties.SCOPE` property when creating the context, to configure a project or domain authorization scope. For example

{% highlight java %}
Properties overrides = new Properties();
// Project scoped authorization (must use the proejct ID)
overrides.put(KeystoneProperties.SCOPE, "project:2f9b30f706bc45d7923e055567be2e98");
// Domain scoped authorization (cna use the domain name or the ID)
overrides.put(KeystoneProperties.SCOPE, "domain:default");
overrides.put(KeystoneProperties.SCOPE, "domainId:2f9b30f706bc45d7923e055567be2e98");
{% endhighlight %}

## Upgrade notes and breaking changes

In order to support V2 and V3, a major refactor has been done to the `openstack-keystone` API and many packages and classes have been renamed, moved and deleted. If your code is relying on constants or other global classes, you may need to update the package references.

TODO: Details breaking changes
